---
title: "Bad Writing is Bad TUAW"
---
<p><strong>Update:</strong> Mike Rose, lead editor at TUAW, <a href="https://chrisenns.com/2012/06/bad-writing-is-bad-tuaw/#IDComment380884754">left a comment indicating they're updating the article attribution</a>. I think I need to start writing posts assuming people might come and actually read them.</p>
<hr>
<p><em>Laura Lang, CEO of Time, Inc. and Eddy Cue, Apple's VP for Internet software and service, confirmed in a phone interview that Time's magazine lineup is coming to the iPhone and iPad.</em></p>
<hr>
<p>If you saw the above sentence on my blog, you'd think I was the one who had the interview, right? At least that's how I read it.</p>
<p>And that's how it's written on a <a href="https://www.tuaw.com/2012/06/14/time-inc-will-sell-its-magazines-on-apples-newsstand/">recent post</a> on TUAW<sup id="fnref-20504:1"><a href="#fn-20504:1" rel="footnote">1</a></sup>, a popular Mac news and rumour blog owned by AOL.</p>
<p>Except that Eddy Cue, a VP at Apple, didn't talk to anyone at TUAW on the phone. He actually talked to Amy Chozick at the New York Times for <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/14/business/media/time-to-offer-magazines-on-apples-newsstand.html?_r=3&amp;smid=tw-share">her article that TUAW linked to</a>. And the TUAW author just copied that sentence, changed a bit of wording, but forgot the important part of the sentence which made me think Eddy Cue and the CEO of Time, Inc. had talked on the phone with a blogger at TUAW.</p>
<p>Far be it from me to be the bastion of good writing and proper journalism, but it is too bad that in the rush to get a story out the door <strong>first!!</strong> there's often missed opportunity to get the story right.</p>
<p>While I'm on my soapbox, my other complaint with the Apple rumour-mill bloggers is when they use a lead/title that implies something is going to happen, i.e. "Apple to Release an Magical TV with All Wheel Drive at WWDC", when in fact it's just a rumour and they should be titling it "Apple Rumoured to Release..." but that gets tiring and doesn't help as much with the link bait SEO tactics to drive page views and advertising clicks.</p>
<p>Such is the monster we've helped create.</p>
<div class="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn-20504:1">
TUAW stands for 'The Unofficial Apple Weblog'&#160;<a href="#fnref-20504:1" rev="footnote">&#8617;</a>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
