---
title: "Apple and the Wearable"
---
<p>John Gruber does one of his patented <a href="https://daringfireball.net/linked/2014/08/08/moto-360-charging">throwaway comments that could be telling his readers actual details</a>:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  The only way this could get funnier would be if it doesn’t even ship until <em>after</em> Apple announces their wrist wearable thing next month.
</p></blockquote>
<p>It's Friday afternoon and I'm late for a family supper but why not throw some prognostication about the Apple wearable device onto the fire before I leave?</p>
<h3>Why a Wearable?</h3>
<p>I still have a hard time seeing Apple releasing something wearable. As a friend and I talked about it we realized Apple has finally convinced most of us to <strong>not</strong> wear a watch anymore because why bother? The iPhone in your pocket is a better watch, among other things, than any watch we'd be able to afford. And now you're telling me Apple is going to try and convince me to start wearing a watch again?</p>
<h3>What is that Thing?</h3>
<p>But.</p>
<p>Apple's never been afraid to go double back on previous plans if new ideas emerge. I don't see a lot of people with Fitbit's on in regular society, but the number is certainly growing. The health/fitness angle on some sort of wearable has to be an attractive market to play in for Apple on many levels. Not the least of which is the new <a href="https://www.apple.com/ios/ios8/health/">Health app coming in iOS8</a>. They're going to need some sort of <em>thing</em> to collect more data on you than just your iPhone would provide - never mind all those people who just have an iPad.</p>
<p>This calm before the potential storm of whatever hardware Apple may come out with is typically a very exciting time - see pre iPhone, iPad, etc. days - but the wearable discussion has a general feeling of so what?</p>
<p>It's hard to get excited for an inanimate thing that will just sit on my wrist and collect data about me. It'd be a little easier if I thought they'd actually put a screen/interface on their wearable but I just figure out how or why they'd want to do that. The iPhone makes a perfect screen and interface for that already.</p>
<p>We will of course have to wait and see what happens on <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2014/08/05/apples-iphone-event-said-to-be-happening-sept-9/">September 9th, 2014</a> at the rumoured Apple event. New iPhones to be sure. iOS 8 availability announcement likely.</p>
<p>Will there be <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hyCzbXx9i-M">one more thing</a>?</p>
