---
title: 'whatreallyhappened?'
author: admin
categories:
  - world-news
tags: 
views: '15'
_wpghs_github_path: _posts/2002-08-16-whatreallyhappened.md
id: 381574c9-33dc-4150-bd44-3dc675b7ac12
---
<p>kip this entry if you don't like hearing about conspiracy theories and/or world events in your blogging.</p>
<p>Ok, now that I got that out of the way. :) I did my occasional reading of www.whatreallyhappened.com and came across this page which basically goes into great detail about the supposed Israeli spy ring operating in the US and basically ends up saying they (Israel) were actually behind the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.</p>
<p>If you want to continue reading, click on 'more' below...<br />
<!--more--><br />
There's not a lot of direct proof on the page, and they link off to many other sites so it feels a bit like a conspiracy theory just to blame someone else. But what was interesting was the mention that Israel owns a lot of the telecommunications companies in the states, including Odigo which is behind a lot of the instant messaging services (ie AIM) that we use. That's freaky enough, considering they could tap into it whenever they want and monitor for certain conversations. What's even more interesting and gives more weigh to the idea that Israel is behind the attacks on Sept. 11 is that Odigo's offices are 2 blocks from the WTC towers - and recieved a warning 2 hours before the attacks occured. CNN had the story on their site, but then pulled it for some unexplained reason. In fact, if you search for Odigo on their site, a brief description of the story will come up, but the link to the actual articles states that it doesn't exist anymore. Here's what the summary states:</p>
<p>The FBI is looking into whether a warning sent to employees at an instant message company less than two hours before jetliners slammed into the World Trade Center was connected to the attacks, a company executive confirmed Friday.</p>
<p>(Some real news sites still have info on this - newsmax)</p>
<p>I don't consider myself a conspiracy theorist by any measure, I just like to try and read both (or all) sides of a story, not just what the media decides to tell us. There may be very good reasons for all of this happening, but it just makes it real suspicious when the US government doesn't want to be open and honest about what's going on.</p>
<p>There. Done. End of conspiracy theory by a non-conspiracy theorist. :) Back to work.</p>
