---
title: 'Walt Disney Offers Refund If Your Baby Isn&#039;t Actually an Einstein'
author: admin
categories:
  - family
tags:
  - childhood
  - einstein
  - parenting
  - tv
_edit_lock: '1256583576'
_edit_last: '1'
_wpghs_github_path: _posts/2009-10-26-walt-disney-offers-refund-if-your-baby-isnt-actually-an-einstein.md
id: 0a630b6f-5369-4b81-8e60-95ba4d23e9c3
---
<p>What?  A massive media company may have used slightly deceptive marketing in order to sell more products?  That's shameful and disgusting!</p>
<blockquote><p>Parent alert: the Walt Disney Company is now offering refunds for all those “Baby Einstein” videos that did not make children into geniuses</p>
<p>They may have been a great electronic baby sitter, but the unusual refunds appear to be a tacit admission that they did not increase infant intellect.</p>
<p>From <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/24/education/24baby.html?_r=1">The New York Times: No Einstein in Your Crib? Get a Refund</a></p></blockquote>
<p>I pity the parent... rather, I pity the child who's parent thinks that by plopping them down in front of a TV with a video playing that the child is going to learn more than if you gave them books, toys and spent time with them helping them learn.</p>
<p>I'm all for entertainment.  Believe me, I've watched more than a couple hours of movies/TV and spent many an evening playing Xbox.  And our son Damien <a href="http://www.vimeo.com/6662531">loves to watch TV</a> and play hockey on Xbox with me when we let him.  But it's entertainment.  Don't stick Junior down in front of the TV for the afternoon and claim it as educational on your parenting check list.  Call it what it is.  It's an electronic babysitter.  And in my opinion, you're training your child to not be able to sit, think, play or do much of anything without some sort of external stimulus.</p>
<p>Whew.  That came out differently than when I thought it would when I first started writing.  :)</p>
