---
title: 'Avoiding Rogers New Incoming Text Message Charges'
author: admin
categories:
  - technology
tags:
  - canada
  - cell
  - incoming
  - rogers
  - text
_edit_lock: '1300805616:1'
_edit_last: '1'
aktt_notify_twitter: 'yes'
_wpghs_github_path: _posts/2009-07-13-avoiding-rogers-new-incoming-text-message-charges.md
id: d8a4272d-d0b6-4be7-9c76-261d570d2ebf
---
<p>As you may have heard, Rogers (a Canadian mobile phone provider) is going to start charging you for incoming text messages as well.  A dirty practice, especially when you have no control over whether people/companies are going to send you a text message.</p>
<p>But if you're an existing customer, you can fight this.  Via <a href="http://www.iphoneincanada.ca/iphone-news/how-to-avoid-rogers-incoming-sms-charges/">www.iphoneincanada.ca</a>:</p>
<blockquote><p>Do me a favor right now. Go grab your Rogers Wireless monthly bill. Flip to page 2 and read number 15 under the Rogers Terms of Service:</p>
<p>“15. Rogers may change these terms, and any aspects of the services, upon notice to you. If you do not accept a change to these terms, your sole remedy is to retain the existing terms unchanged for the duration of your commitment period. If you do not accept any other change to aspects of the services, your sole remedy is to terminate.”</p>
<p>In other words, if you do not accept the recent change to charge for incoming text messages, you do not need to pay for them and your service can continue unchanged.</p>
<p>Every single post-paid (in contract or not in contract) customer of Rogers meets the requirement under Condition 15 which is “upon notice to you“. Each post-paid Rogers customer was informed of the incoming text message charge changes via their bill a few months ago.</p>
<p>So call Rogers at 1-888-ROGERS1 or *611 from your mobile phone and quote Condition 15. If they give you push back, ask for a Manager. Make sure the (usually uninformed) representative realizes this a legally binding document and they cannot simply say “no”. At this point, get them to put a text message plan on your account for free for the remaining time of your term. </p></blockquote>
<p>Read <a href="http://www.iphoneincanada.ca/iphone-news/how-to-avoid-rogers-incoming-sms-charges/">the rest of the post for more info</a> and tips on how to avoid these charges.</p>
