---
title: 'Like Lions on an Antelope'
author: admin
categories:
  - apple
tags: 
_edit_lock: '1300201359:1'
_edit_last: '1'
_wpghs_github_path: _posts/2010-04-01-like-lions-on-an-antelope.md
id: 1b28ac7f-37f9-4776-8e8b-4f169844390a
---
<p>One more quote, this one from Stephen Fry's <a href="http://www.time.com/time/business/article/0,8599,1976935-4,00.html">article</a> on going to Apple as they prepare to launch the iPad:</p>
<blockquote><p>It is possible that the public will not fall on the iPad, as I did, like lions on an antelope. Perhaps they will find the apps and the iBooks too expensive. Maybe they will wait for more fully featured later models. But for me, my iPad is like a gun lobbyist's rifle: the only way you will take it from me is to prise it from my cold, dead hands. One melancholy thought occurs as my fingers glide and flow over the surface of this astonishing object: Douglas Adams is not alive to see the closest thing to his Hitchhiker's Guide that humankind has yet devised.</p></blockquote>
<p>And if you're one of those nerds deriding it for not having Flash or (insert geeky feature that some other 'tablet' has), don't hold your breath:</p>
<blockquote><p>I put to designer (<em>Jonathan</em>) Ive the matter of all the features that are missing from the iPad. "In many ways, it's the things that are not there that we are most proud of," he tells me. "For us, it is all about refining and refining until it seems like there's nothing between the user and the content they are interacting with."</p>
<p>That's not what he's supposed to say. Tech journalists are obsessed with spec lists and functions. Does it do this? Does it do that? They often look at devices as the sum of their features. But that kind of thinking isn't in Apple's DNA. </p></blockquote>
<p>We're still waiting on an official worldwide release date for the iPad.  Right now it's only available in the USA on April 3rd.  Rumour has it that <a href="http://www.ipadincanada.ca/ipad-news/ipad-launch-date-in-canada-april-24th/">April 24th is the date</a> but nothing official has been released yet from Apple.</p>
