---
title: 'Confessions of a Tea Party Casualty'
author: admin
categories:
  - politics
tags: 
_edit_last: '1'
_edit_lock: '1281113815'
_wp_old_slug: ''
_wpghs_github_path: _posts/2010-08-06-confessions-of-a-tea-party-casualty.md
id: af324db3-f6a2-4581-884d-ebecfbbacb21
---
<p>US politics boggles my mind.  I'm sure this kind of stuff is going to start happening more up north here in Canada since we seem to try and beg/borrow/steal the worst of what America has to offer.  But there's some <strong>seriously crazy</strong> folks down there in the <em>United</em> States.</p>
<blockquote><p>I refused to use the word because I have this view that the Ninth Commandment must mean something. I remember one year Bill Clinton—the guy I was out to get [when serving on the House judiciary committee in the 1990s]—at the National Prayer Breakfast said something that was one of the most profound things I've ever heard from anybody at a gathering like that. He said, "The most violated commandment in Washington, DC"—everybody leaned in; do tell, Mr. President—"is, 'Thou shall not bear false witness against thy neighbor.'" I thought, "He's right. That is the most violated commandment in Washington." For me to go around saying that Barack Obama is a socialist is a violation of the Ninth Commandment. He is a liberal fellow. I'm conservative. We disagree...But I don't need to call him a socialist, and I hurt the country by doing so. The country has to come together to find a solution to these challenges or else we go over the cliff.</p>
<p><strong>Mother Jones</strong> <a href="http://motherjones.com/politics/2010/08/bob-inglis-tea-party-casualty">Confessions of a Tea Party Casualty</a></p></blockquote>
<p>Via <a href="http://motherjones.com/politics/2010/08/bob-inglis-tea-party-casualty">Daring Fireball</a>.</p>
