---
title: 'Wake Up at 2 a.m.'
author: admin
categories:
  - life
tags: 
_edit_lock: '1267112306'
_edit_last: '1'
_wpghs_github_path: _posts/2010-02-25-wake-up-at-2-a-m.md
id: 6c12525b-0c11-4061-8f74-c31f8d305aa2
---
<p>We woke up to a banging sound last night around 2 in the morning.  We had recently moved our son, Damien, down to the main floor bedroom in preparation for the new baby that's coming (<em>any day now?!</em>) and he's been known to wake up and bang on his door until we come down and put him back to bed.</p>
<p>In my groggy, sleepy headed state I stumbled down the stairs and went to his door.  Only there was no noise coming from his room.</p>
<p><strong>Bang!  Bang!  Bang</strong></p>
<p>The banging persisted.  And now I could hear a voice attached to the banging.</p>
<blockquote><p>Hey!  Open the door.  I don't want to cause no trouble.  I just want to sleep.  Hurry up.</p></blockquote>
<p>I peeked out our back door and saw a guy, obviously blitzed out of his tree, standing in our doorway barely standing up.</p>
<p>"You've got the wrong house" I said to him through the door.  He said he didn't care, he just wanted to sleep.  I told him a few more times that he was at the wrong house and that he couldn't come sleep here but he persisted in banging and asking to be let in.</p>
<p>We decided to call the police because I didn't really want to deal with some drunk dude in my house.  While I was on the phone with the police the drunk dude decided he would lay down on our back porch to rest.  As I gave our address and described him to the police he continued to mumble random things about wanting to go to sleep and not wanting to fight anybody.</p>
<p>When the police arrived they gave him a visual look over and decided that they definitely didn't want to be touching this guy and so they told him they were going to bring an ambulance in to check him over.  While waiting for the ambulance to arrive the police continued trying to figure out who he was, where he lived and where he came from.</p>
<p>As best as I could figure out from his "answers" to the police:</p>
<ul>
<li>He's 24 (but that could be wrong because it was the 24th of Feb yesterday)</li>
<li>It was his birthday</li>
<li>His friend's took him out drinking</li>
<li>Some guys wanted to fight him but he didn't want no fight</li>
<li>He wouldn't fight with the police or paramedics even if they punched him in the face he wouldn't fight back.</li>
</ul>
<p>Sweet friends who take a guy out drinking and then ditch him somewhere besides his home and leave him to get picked up by the police.  I was impressed that they sent him in the ambulance and that they didn't just throw him in the back of the police car to sober up.  He obviously stunk quite a bit because the cops kept taking steps back from him and waving their hands in front of their face as they tried to get him to the ambulance.</p>
<p>Just a bit of excitement for the night.  Hopefully that's the first and last time that's happened to us.</p>
