---
title: "Andre the Giant - The Greatest Drunk Ever"
link-url: "http://"
---
<p>Using the term "greatest" fairly loosely and only in the way one can when looking back with a fair amount of 80's wrestling nostalgia mixed with a universal love of The Princess Bride. I can't imagine actually being around someone like who Andre the Giant apparently was - but it makes for a good story. Like this one from the set of The Princess Bride:</p>
<blockquote><p>When ill health forced Andre to largely quit wrestling in the late ‘80s, he accepted the role of Fezzik in Rob Reiner’s movie The Princess Bride. Everyone on the set loved the big man, with the possible exception of Reiner himself. Ever the sociable fellow, he kept fellow cast members Mandy Patinkin and Carey Elwes out night after night, drinking and otherwise goofing around. The actors were incapable of matching Andre’s intake, but certainly gave it a serious try. As a result, they often showed up on set still loaded or suffering from the sort of hangovers that make death seem a pleasant alternative. Reiner tried to get Andre to leave the actors alone, but Andre could only be Andre, and the other cast members continued to pay the price.</p>
<p>The shooting schedule required Andre to be in England for about a month. When his part wrapped, Andre checked out of his suite at the Hyatt in London and flew back to his ranch in North Carolina. His bar bill for the month-long stay?</p>
<p>Just a shade over $40,000.</p>
<p><cite>From <a href="http://www.drunkard.com/issues/10_06/10_06_andre_giant.html">drunkard.com</a></cite></p></blockquote>
<p><em>Link via <a href="http://americanmccarver.com/post/8190425032">americanmccarver.com</a></em></p>
