---
title: 'Get a Notebook'
author: admin
categories:
  - blogging
  - technology
tags:
  - idea
  - notebook
  - society
  - technology
  - writing
aktt_notify_twitter: 'yes'
_edit_last: '1'
_edit_lock: '1301065857:1'
image: ''
quote-author: Unknown
quote-url: 'http://'
quote-copy: Unknown
audio: 'http://'
link-url: 'http://'
seo_follow: 'false'
seo_noindex: 'false'
aktt_tweeted: '1'
_wpghs_github_path: _posts/2011-03-20-get-a-notebook.md
id: c3ff56b8-c763-4cab-aa19-df3f4bb8d692
---
<p>I often catch myself judging others who pull out their iPhone/mobile phone/smart phone/dumb phone in the middle of a conversation, while knowing full well that I'm probably as guilty of it as the next person.</p>
<p>Matt <a href="http://mattwie.be/2011/03/notebooks-pocket-computers/">writes about the societal norms</a>, or lack thereof, when it comes to use of these devices in public circles:</p>
<blockquote><p>I am now, as in many cases, reminded of Wendell Berry’s respect for the Amish in their insist­ence that all new tech­no­logy must be eval­u­ated through the ques­tion of “how will this impact our com­munity?” Pocket com­puters, when used indis­crim­in­ately and out­side of agreed-upon social norms, can def­in­itely be harm­ful to the pos­sib­il­ity of being present to one another in community.</p></blockquote>
<p><em>Spoiler alert:</em> He decides to buy a real, honest to goodness notebook instead of pulling out his iPhone to jot down a thought.</p>
<p>I went through a similar bout of technological guilt and came home from a shopping trip with a new notebook. My problem is that I never have my notebook with me when I actually want to use it. Unlike my iPhone, which is usually in my pocket or somewhere nearby, I always leave my notebook in my laptop bag.</p>
<p>So I ended up with <a href="http://click.linksynergy.com/fs-bin/stat?id=6PFrOqNV4B8&offerid=146261&type=3&subid=0&tmpid=1826&RD_PARM1=http%253A%252F%252Fitunes.apple.com%252Fca%252Fapp%252Fplaintext-dropbox-text-editing%252Fid391254385%253Fmt%253D8%2526uo%253D4%2526partnerId%253D30" target="itunes_store">PlainText</a> on my iPhone home screen. By turning off most notification/warnings from apps, I don't often get distracted while I turn on the iPhone and fire up PlainText.</p>
<p><em>Also, I'm impressed Matt lets his wife read early drafts of his posts. I can't even stand to be in the same room with my wife if she's reading my blog - never mind listening to a podcast I'm on.</em></p>
