---
title: "Moving On to Something New"
---
<p>It&#8217;s with a mixture of excitement, nervousness and a dash of whattheheckareyoudoingandthinking-ness, I&#8217;m happy to announce that beginning September 6th, I&#8217;ll be taking <a href="http://lemonproductions.ca">Lemon Productions</a> full time.</p>
<p>Phew. Said it. Now I have to do it.</p>
<h2 id="where_i8217ve_been">Where I&#8217;ve Been</h2>
<p>First off, this means that I&#8217;ll no longer be working at <a href="http://www.yastech.ca">YasTech Developments</a>. I&#8217;ve been working with Michael for almost exactly 2 years and it&#8217;s been a great pleasure to work alongside him on all the different projects that came across our desks. I learned a lot about running a small business, having employees and communicating with clients from Michael and I owe him a great deal of thanks for that.</p>
<p>I&#8217;ve heard others say that once you&#8217;ve run your own business you&#8217;re ruined for working for others. And while there&#8217;s obviously exceptions to that rule, I can say that the little taste I had of working for myself just before starting at YasTech left me wanting to do it again. I knew it was going to be a matter of when, not if, that I would need to return to Lemon Productions full-time. And while it&#8217;s hard to leave the security, familiarity and comfort of a job you&#8217;ve been in for the unknowns of your own business - it really feels like this is the right time to take the leap.</p>
<h2 id="who8217s_going_with_me">Who&#8217;s Going With Me?</h2>
<p>I keep saying &#8220;I&#8221;, when really it&#8217;s &#8220;we&#8221;.</p>
<p>My wife, Susan, and I have spent many days and nights thinking, discussing, praying, arguing and discussing some more all the scenarios and options ahead. There is absolutely no way I will succeed with Lemon Productions without her support and I am very thankful to have such a loving, adventurous wife that is willing to travel this road with me. </p>
<p>There&#8217;s also friends and family that have supported me and listening to me ramble on, giving feedback and nodding in agreement when I go on about how I&#8217;d like to do things. They don&#8217;t all know it yet, but they&#8217;re being pulled along with me on this journey because without their support, we won&#8217;t make it either.</p>
<h2 id="what_will_it_look_like">What Will It Look Like?</h2>
<p>The core of Lemon Productions can be summed up with the tagline on the <a href="http://lemonproductions.ca">website</a>:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  Solving Your Online Problems
</p></blockquote>
<h3 id="what_does_that_mean">What Does That Mean?</h3>
<p>I love to help people get stuff done online. Helping a small business setup their website, social media efforts on Twitter and Facebook, email marketing campaigns. I like to see people&#8217;s eye&#8217;s light up when they realize the potential of what their website can do for them.  Setting up an e-commerce section on someone&#8217;s website so they can sell the work of art they&#8217;ve created is an awesome experience.</p>
<p>Another aspect is media creation. I enjoy making small, short videos that help explain your business, app, website or solve a problem you&#8217;re having with your employees. Video is a great way to show <strong>and</strong> tell what you&#8217;re trying to get across to someone.</p>
<p>In short, I want to take the difficulty out of using the internet for your business or creative endeavour. </p>
<h3 id="what_that_doesn8217t_mean">What That Doesn&#8217;t Mean?</h3>
<p>I feel it’s impor­tant to not only define what you do, it’s also impor­tant to know what you don’t do. There’s only so many hours in a day/​week/​month and I want to make sure I make the best use of that time for me per­son­ally, as well as for my clients. Often when a per­son hears that you “build web­sites”, they just assume that since you work on a com­puter you must also love to sup­port them. </p>
<p>Lemon Pro­duc­tions is not an IT sup­port com­pany. There’s plenty of com­pa­nies who will come out and trou­bleshoot your Win­dows Vista net­work con­nec­tion issues or fig­ure out why your email pass­word isn’t work­ing. I can help you find a good one to work with.</p>
<p>It’s not that I don’t enjoy help­ing peo­ple solve their prob­lems — it’s just that I enjoy help­ing peo­ple solve their online prob­lems more.  A focused busi­ness knows who it’s poten­tial clients are just as much as it knows who they aren’t.</p>
<p>All that being said, if you’re not sure if I can help you or not, don’t be afraid to ask. If it’s not some­thing I can help you with, I’ll be happy to work with you to find some­one that can.</p>
<h2 id="what_about_that_other_podcasting_thing">What About That Other Podcasting Thing?</h2>
<p>One aspect of Lemon Productions that I hope to be able to continue to grow is the creative projects that I build out myself or with others. One of those projects is <a href="http://www.ssktn.com">SSKTN</a>, a podcast network that I have been slowly building. Talking with people about technology, marketing and business is a great way for me to learn about my industry and I enjoy providing a resource for others to learn from through new media efforts such as podcasting.</p>
<p>Through sponsorship and advertising opportunities, I hope to be able to partially support Lemon Productions with podcasting on <a href="http://www.ssktn.com">SSKTN</a>, but more on that at a later date.</p>
<h2 id="how_to_help">How to Help</h2>
<p>Thanks for reading this far. I really, really appreciate it.</p>
<p>If you&#8217;d like to help, you can recommend my services when you hear someone asking questions such as:</p>
<ul>
<li>Who should I get to build a website for my business?</li>
<li>I wish I knew how to use Twitter. I feel like there&#8217;s an opportunity there but have no clue how to start.</li>
<li>I&#8217;ve got a passion for building widgets and think I could sell them online - but where do you begin?</li>
<li>I really, really need to buy someone a grande peppermint mocha but have no idea who I should buy it for?</li>
</ul>
<p>Thanks again for reading. Feel free to subscribe to my <a href="http://feeds.feedburner.com/lemonproductionsblog">Lemon Productions blog</a> for marketing and business articles, <a href="http://www.twitter.com/lemonproduction">follow on Twitter</a> for quick thoughts and tips/tricks, or <a href="http://www.facebook.com/pages/Lemon-Productions/37801940941">like on Facebook</a> because it&#8217;s what everyone does.</p>
