---
title: "Google+ Has Half a Billion Members"
linked_list_url: "https://readwrite.com/2012/12/06/googles-ghost-town-now-has-half-a-billion-members"
---
<blockquote><p>
  Google+ has some advantages. For one thing, you have more control over your experience. And your feed isn’t cluttered with ads. In general, Google+ feels like a cleaner, nicer place than Facebook, which has never been very attractive and is starting to look old and tired.
</p></blockquote>
<p>Ironic that a feature of a Google product is, at least for now, the fact that it's not "cluttered with ads". I can't see that lasting forever but it's a nice counterpoint to how ugly Facebook is.</p>
<blockquote><p>
  The bigger news, however, is that Google+ now has 500 million members, 135 million of whom are active users of Google+ itself, while 235 million are considered "active" by virtue of interacting with Google+ from other Google sites. That total number of 500 million is up from 400 million only three months ago.
</p></blockquote>
<p>I get tired of people on Twitter/etc. cracking "<a href="https://twitter.com/search?q=remember%20google%2B&amp;src=typd">Remember Google+?</a>" or "Is Google+ still around?" jokes just because they haven't figured out a use for Google+. I'm not <a href="https://plus.google.com/118123290386382463789/">very active on there</a> right now either but you can't deny that a lot of people are finding real uses for Google+, particularly photographers.</p>
<p>Their new <a href="https://googleblog.blogspot.ca/2012/12/google-communities-and-photos.html">Communities feature</a> (essentially groups/forums within Google+) is only going to help that growth as more people are able to gather around similar interests.</p>
<p>I'm the last person who wants yet another social network to come along. But just like Google and Microsoft with Apple in the mobile phone space, competition is a good thing. A company that has dominance in a market eventually gets stagnant and looks out only for the bottom line and not what the users need or want in their products.</p>
