---
title: "Outsource the Video Camera at Birthday Parties"
---
<p>A few weeks ago we celebrated our son's 5th birthday. Friends and family came out to help us make a special day for our oldest.</p>
<p>Since this is the first post on this site something you need to know about me is that I love to shoot and edit video. You can see <a href="https://vimeo.com/ichris/videos">some of the videos I've produced on my Vimeo account</a> - a mix of <a href="https://vimeo.com/album/2333">personal/family stuff</a> and also some <a href="https://vimeo.com/album/7567">work for clients</a>.</p>
<p>So when it comes time to record a family event for posterity, I'm the one who:</p>
<ul>
<li>Grabs the video camera and makes sure it's charged up the night before</li>
<li>Makes sure we have a empty tape ready in case an hour isn't enough recording time (Yikes!)</li>
<li>Plans out my shooting angles, lighting and audio issues for the celebration area the morning of the event.</li>
</ul>
<p>Ok. That last one isn't true - at least not for personal video shoots.</p>
<p>But this time we had some other family in town, including my brother in law who also enjoys shooting video. And so I asked him if he could record the event for me and I'd just use my Nikon DSLR to take pictures.</p>
<h2>The World Didn't Explode</h2>
<p>Handing over control of something like recording my son's birthday party to someone else isn't something I typically like to do. It often has very little to do with the other person is actually capable or not - which in this case, my brother-in-law certainly was - but more to do with me wanting to make sure everything is the way I want it.</p>
<p>But as you can see from the video above, a two things happened:</p>
<ul>
<li>All important events were recorded. And anything that got missed isn't going to be so important 10 years from now.</li>
<li>I was able to relax and enjoy the day with my son and friends/family that were there. I still snapped a few pictures and helped my wife with getting things out, games organized, etc. but I was able to enjoy the moments instead of worrying about recording them.</li>
</ul>
<p>So for the next party or family event where normally you'd be the one to have your face stuck behind the camera - see if you can't outsource it to someone else. Obviously you'll want to make sure they'll do a good enough job so you have something watchable at the end - but being able to relax and enjoy the moment rather than worrying about a camera's settings the whole time is more than worth it.</p>
