---
title: "Pray I will and sing I must, but yet I weep."
linked_list_url: 'http://talkingpointsmemo.com/archives/2012/09/the_other_side_of_joe_biden.php'
---
<blockquote><p>
  Rarely do I watch Joe Biden give a speech or an interview without looking for some evidence, in his eyes or the lines of his face, of the fact that he lost half of his young family when he was 30 years old. It is inconceivable to me, always has been, but especially in the years since I became a father. For all his goofballism, Biden has gone through a crucible that I cannot imagine. And he did so when he was 30, an adult, already deeply invested in the life he was building.
</p></blockquote>
<p>Via <a href="http://dooce.com/2012/09/11/pray-i-will-and-sing-i-must-yet-i-weep">Dooce</a> comes a <a href="http://talkingpointsmemo.com/archives/2012/09/the_other_side_of_joe_biden.php">link to a transcript of Joe Biden's speech to commemorate the events of September 11th, 2001</a>:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  My hope for you all is that as every year passes, the depth of your pain recedes and you find comfort, as I have, genuine comfort in recalling his smile, her laugh, their touch. And I hope you’re as certain as I am that she can see what a wonderful man her son has turned out to be, grown up to be; that he knows everything that your daughter has achieved, and that he can hear, and she can hear how her mom still talks about her, the day he scored the winning touchdown, how bright and beautiful she was on that graduation day, and know that he knows what a beautiful child the daughter he never got to see has turned out to be, and how much she reminds you of him. For I know you see your wife every time you see her smile on your child’s face. You remember your daughter every time you hear laughter coming from her brother’s lips. And you remember your husband every time your son just touches your hand.
</p></blockquote>
