---
title: "iTunes Podcasts Recommend Larger Artwork"
---
<p>It was 1200 x 1200 pixels, but recently changed to 1400 x 1400 pixels:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  To be considered for promotion on the iTunes Store, your podcast cover art must be 1400 x 1400 pixels or larger, in .jpg or .png format. Please note that all images must be formatted for RGB color space. CMYK is not supported.
</p></blockquote>
<p>iTunes now supports 1080p HD video, presumably to better support the recently announced Apple TVs that also support 1080p HD. And Apple is now doing more indexing of episode metadata:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  We now index episode metadata in search. Include descriptive episode titles and summaries for best Search Engine Optimization on iTunes.
</p></blockquote>
<p>Something else that's new (to me) is including different artwork for each podcast episode:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  We encourage providers to include episode-specific cover art at the episode level. Further details can be found in our online technical specification.
</p></blockquote>
<p>A bit more work to put out each episode, but most podcast producers are likely editing artwork for their episode posts on the web what's one more .JPG?</p>
<p>Full detail can be <a href="https://www.apple.com/itunes/podcasts/specs.html">found at Apple.com's Podcasting specs page</a>.</p>
<h3>Why the Change?</h3>
<p>These changes and improvements to the podcast spec were put out a few weeks ago and lots of rumour sites grabbed onto them as proof of a TV from Apple. In hindsight, it looks like it might have just been to help podcasts look better on the newly announced MacBook Pro with retina display.</p>
<p>Not that a TV isn't coming sometime, but just not right away.</p>
