---
title: "The Listserve"
---
<p><a href="http://thelistserve.com">The Listserve</a> is a mailing list where, once you've signed up, you'll get a daily (Monday to Friday) email from someone else on the list. The writer of the email is chosen at random from the, at present, over 21,000 people signed up to The Listserve.</p>
<h3>My Thoughts</h3>
<p>A mini review of The Listserve, if you will.</p>
<p>In the couple of months since I signed up, I'd say that over 3/4 of the emails have been somewhere between good to great. And I don't feel any obligation to read every single email that comes along - if I fall behind I just delete the previous ones and start with the next day's email.</p>
<h3>Sample Email</h3>
<p>Here's a quote from today's Listserve email by Vitor Bosshard from Zürich, Switzerland:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  The thing is, my heart is broken. Literally. I have a genetic disease that deforms the heart over time, causing it to pump less efficiently, so every physical activity is more demanding. Every time I overexert myself I risk permanent damage to my heart, making the condition worse. I've known this for a while now, but I had been ignoring it and pushing myself to the limit nonetheless, just because I couldn't deal with the idea of reverting to my old unfit self. I'm slowly learning to accept my limitations, however, no matter how unfair they feel, and am trying to find a middle way that keeps me fit and protects my heart at the same time.</p>
<p>  I want you guys to take a minute today to appreciate the wonder of this incredibly complex and fragile machinery we inhabit, which keeps ticking along day in and day out, without us even noticing until something goes wrong. Maybe take another minute and ask yourselves if you are putting enough effort into maintaining it, considering you'll be stuck inside for the next 20, 50, 80 years. And if you have a suggestion for an awesome, low-intensity sport that's engaging and fun, I would absolutely love to hear it!
</p></blockquote>
<p>Sign up at <a href="http://thelistserve.com">thelistserve.com</a>.</p>
