---
title: "iOS Multitasking And Not Needing to Kill Applications"
---
<p>I wasn't going to post anything about this because I figured it wasn't really worth sharing. But then as I had loaded up the video posted below to watch I actually had someone come in to my office and tell me how they had been told by a Genius <sup id="fnref-19956:1"><a href="#fn-19956:1" rel="footnote">1</a></sup> at an Apple Store that they should shut down/kill applications on their iPad in order to improve performance.</p>
<p>The bottom line is this, quoting from <a href="https://speirs.org/blog/2012/1/6/ios-multitasking-in-detail.html">Fraiser Speirs article that accompanies the video posted below</a>:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  ...killing apps manually is fine as a troubleshooting step but it shouldn't be part of your daily routine.
</p></blockquote>
<p>That post and the video are a follow up to Fraiser's earlier post titled <a href="https://speirs.org/blog/2012/1/2/misconceptions-about-ios-multitasking.html">Misconceptions About iOS Multitasking</a> where Fraiser goes into great technical detail to explain why you don't have to kill apps to improve performance on your iPad/iPhone.</p>
<p>It's not to say that you should never do it. It's just that there's no reason to do it on a regular basis. There are certainly some apps <sup id="fnref-19956:2"><a href="#fn-19956:2" rel="footnote">2</a></sup> that don't manage their memory very well or situations where an app is stuck/frozen that it makes sense to manually kill it. But it's not something you need to do on a daily/weekly basis to improve performance.</p>
<p>I recognize that since this is the internet, there's anecdotal evidence for anything so, as <a href="https://daringfireball.net/2012/01/ios_multitasking">John Gruber said in his post about it</a>,</p>
<blockquote><p>
  Like with any voodoo, there are die-hard believers. I’m quite certain that I am going to receive email from people who will swear up-and-down that emptying this list of used applications every hour or so keeps their iPhone running better than it would otherwise. Nonsense.
</p></blockquote>
<h3>Fraiser's Video Demoing How iOS Takes Care of Memory Management For You</h3>

<p><a href="https://vimeo.com/34660348">Direct link to video</a></p>
<div class="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn-19956:1">
A Genius at an Apple Store is a position or title for the employees who help fix people's problems. It's not just a really smart person who happened to be at the Apple Store.&#160;<a href="#fnref-19956:1" rev="footnote">&#8617;</a>
</li>
<li id="fn-19956:2">
I'd guess that most of these kinds of apps fall into the free with in-app purchase variety that are really after a quick buck and very loosely follow Apple's recommended programming and code guidelines for iOS apps.&#160;<a href="#fnref-19956:2" rev="footnote">&#8617;</a>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
