---
title: "Random Stats on ChrisEnns.com"
---
<p>Random interesting (to me) stats about you folks that visit ChrisEnns.com. Most are percentages and use the reporting period from Jan 1, 2013 to today (March 4th, 2013).</p>
<h3>Operating System</h3>
<p>I'm a Mac user and obviously have a bit of a focus on Mac news and nerdery so it would make sense that there'd be more Mac users reading my blog than Windows/etc.</p>
<ul>
<li>Macintosh - 41.81%    </li>
<li>iOS - 34.82%</li>
<li>Windows - 19.39%</li>
<li>Android - 2.12%</li>
<li>Linux - 1.03%</li>
</ul>
<p>So between iOS and the Mac, over 75% of my readers are Apple based in some form.</p>
<h3>Browser Versions</h3>
<p>The struggle of every <a href="https://lemonproductions.ca">web designer</a> out there - all the difference browsers that are out there.</p>
<ul>
<li>Safari - 38.31%   </li>
<li>Chrome - 24.58%</li>
<li>Safari (in-app) - 20.04%</li>
<li>Firefox - 9.44%</li>
<li>Internet Explorer - 4.76%</li>
<li>Mozilla Compatible Agent - 1.17%</li>
<li>Android Browser - 1.06%</li>
<li>Opera 11 - 0.31%</li>
<li>IE with Chrome Frame - 0.14%</li>
<li>Opera Mini - 0.08%</li>
</ul>
<p>No real surprise here, given the OS stats from the previous stats. Happy to see Internet Explorer below the "I'm not going to worry about it" line.</p>
<h3>Mac OS Versions</h3>
<p>Mac users are known for upgrading their software and staying current. Do the stats bear this out?</p>
<ul>
<li>Intel 10.8 - 67.98%   </li>
<li>Intel 10.7 - 15.31%</li>
<li>Intel 10.6 - 14.73%</li>
<li>Intel 10.5 - 1.86%</li>
<li>Intel - 0.12%</li>
</ul>
<p>I'm surprised there are as many people still on 10.6 or lower. And if it ain't broke, don't fix it I guess. But for the 15% of you still on 10.7, <a href="https://target.georiot.com/Proxy.ashx?tsid=528&GR_URL=https%253A%252F%252Fitunes.apple.com%252Fus%252Fapp%252Fos-x-mountain-lion%252Fid537386512%253Fmt%253D12%2526uo%253D4%2526partnerId%253D30" target="itunes_store">OS X Mountain Lion 10.8 is only $19.99</a> - I wouldn't over think that upgrade for too long.</p>
<h3>Incoming Traffic, Social Shares</h3>
<p>If someone comes to my site via a link on a social network, which networks send the most traffic?</p>
<ul>
<li>Twitter - 87.96%</li>
<li>Facebook - 6.57%</li>
<li>YouTube - 2.39%</li>
<li>Tumblr - 1.39%</li>
<li>HootSuite - 0.40%</li>
<li>Google+ - 0.30%</li>
</ul>
<p>I don't invest a lot in Facebook or other networks and Twitter is by far the most commonly used social network, in my opinion, among the types of folks who'd likely find my blog interesting.</p>
<hr>
<p>Nothing earth shattering to me in the numbers. I'm a bit surprised that Twitter is as high as it is in referral traffic. The rest of the numbers confirm what I'd suspected to be true - a Mac focused blog attracts a lot of Mac users.</p>
