---
title: "The Best Actress Alive is in Orphan Black"
---
<p>We've just started watching Orphan Black - literally one episode in so no spoilers! - and are intrigued by it. It has come with a lot of praise from folks I follow on Twitter and family members who've watched it and so I'm always a bit apprehensive starting to watch a show that people are praising so highly. It can't be <strong>that</strong> good, right?</p>
<p>And while it's too early for me to tell, there's clearly a lot of support among her peers for Orphan Black star Tatiana Maslany as a great actress:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  When you get Patton Oswalt going on the subject of Orphan Black and its star, Tatiana Maslany, he gets a little shouty.<br />
  “She absolutely deserves an Emmy,” he said recently on the phone at an escalating volume. “There’s just no argument to it. Not a nomination. AN EMMY. An. EMMY.” - <a href="http://www.buzzfeed.com/kateaurthur/tatiana-maslany-orphan-black-emmys-patton-oswalt">Why Patton Oswalt Thinks “Orphan Black’s” Tatiana Maslany Is The “Best Actress Alive”</a>
</p></blockquote>
<p>Watching the show I just assumed Maslany was British but in fact she's Canadian and grew up down the road from where I live:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  Maslany grew up in Regina in Saskatchewan, Canada. Her father is a woodworker and cabinetmaker; her mother is a French/English translator — wait! That explains the accents she does on Orphan Black. “My mom taught me German before I knew English,” she said. “And I went to French immersion school. It’s been around me. I think because I learned it at a young age, your brain understands how languages are structured.” (Her natural accent is one of mild Canadiana.)
</p></blockquote>
<p>Mild Canadiana? Aren't all Canadians pretty mild?</p>
<p><em>Article link via <a href="https://twitter.com/adtgrg/status/349207071109029889">@adtgrg</a></em></p>
