---
title: "Anti-Apple Anger"
---
<blockquote><p>
  Our technology choices reflect our values. People willing to yield some control to Apple for their needs are more likely to enjoy the benefits that Apple’s products bring by exerting that control. But people who don’t like being told what to do — people who believe they know what’s best for them, want full control over everything, and are willing to accept the resulting responsibilities — will be more comfortable with the alternatives.</p>
<p>  The philosophical differences between these approaches, and the frequent failure to understand both viewpoints, are the roots of anti-Apple anger.
</p></blockquote>
<p><a href="https://www.marco.org/2013/01/21/anti-apple-anger">Great article by Marco Arment</a> that was originally published in <a href="https://the-magazine.org/">The Magazine, Issue 4</a>.</p>
<p>I have about 3 different draft posts sitting on my blog where I try and articulate most of what Marco writes. What I often get from people is this desire to make sure I know if they think Apple is faltering. And it seems as if they're giddy with delight to point out "<em>Hey'd ya see that Apple isn't selling as many iPhones as analysts thought they would?</em>" only once you actually try and have a conversation with them about what's going on, they really don't care nor have they done much more than read a headline.</p>
<p>I enjoy Apple both as an interesting company to watch as well as using the products they build. I enjoy the ongoing story of how Apple, Microsoft, Google, RIM, etc. are all trying to navigate what we are able to do now with what's going to come in the future.</p>
<p>Currently I place my money<sup id="fnref-21139:1"><a href="#fn-21139:1" rel="footnote">1</a></sup> on Apple being the best way forward in terms of what's best for me and how I use technology as well as those around me. But Apple won't be around forever. Eventually they'll be blind to some new <em>thing</em> the same way everyone else was blind to the iPhone.</p>
<p>But for now, I'm going to enjoy the well designed hardware and software they ship.</p>
<blockquote><p>
  Iter­a­tion. It’s the key to design, really. Just keep improv­ing it until you have to ship it.
</p></blockquote>
<div class="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn-21139:1">
Money in terms of products I buy. I currently own no Apple stock.&#160;<a href="#fnref-21139:1" rev="footnote">&#8617;</a>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
