---
title: 'Bill Murray on The Fantastic Mister Fox'
author: admin
categories:
  - movies
tags:
  - bill-murray
  - quote
  - wes-anderson
_wpcom_is_markdown: '1'
_edit_lock: '1506024859:1'
_edit_last: '1'
_yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: 'bill murray'
_yoast_wpseo_focuskw: 'bill murray'
_yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '75'
_yoast_wpseo_content_score: '30'
_genesis_scripts_body_position: bottom
_yoast_wpseo_primary_category: ''
_thumbnail_id: '22911'
_wpas_done_all: '1'
id: dd160349-a3d3-4bd4-8f87-c1e57030efb8
---
<p>After watching the trailer for Wes Anderson's new film, <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dt__kig8PVU">Isle of Dogs</a>, I went searching for random Bill Murray stories and stumbled on this from <a href="http://www.vulture.com/2014/01/highlights-of-bill-murrays-surprise-reddit-ama.html">Vulture.com's highlights of Bill Murray's surprise Reddit AMA back in 2014</a>:</p>
<blockquote><p>
  "Well that was great fun. It was great fun, because it just dragged on and on and on. And it was this fun bunch of people. First we went to our friend's farm, and we all stayed at her place for a handful of days while we recorded during the day and then at night we would have these magnificent meals and we would all tell stories. We had a LOT of great food, a lot of great wine and great stories. It went on until people started literally falling from their chairs and being taken away. And then we had to go to another place and do it again, we went to George's place, but then something happen and the whole party broke up, and George said "you don't have to go, do ya" and I didn't, so we just kicked around Northern Italy for a while. It was a real fiesta. And then Wes was working in England, so I had to fly to England for like 3 days to re-record, but the re-recording only took about 70 minutes, so that was fun. And then I had to go to Paris, once again, another disaster having to go to Paris to re-record for 20 minutes. It was a terrible, terrible experience. That was a really good job and he did a great job on the film. And Wes' brother Eric did a great job as the character, he was just amazing. To me he was the high point of the whole thing. And the artisans working in England that built all those sets and did all that work, the mechanicals, to see them work - that was like a treasure. That was like getting to go backstage to see the finest artists at work."
</p></blockquote>
<p>Sounds like a fun life.</p>
