---
title: "I know your out there... somewhere out there"
views: '2'
---
<p>Some of you may have noticed the little graph-like icon at the very bottom of this page. If you click on it it takes you to the stats for my blog and near the bottom of that page it gives me a breakdown of where people are from who visit this site. I realize it's not entirely accurate since people could be telneting to other computers and then connecting to the web, but:</p>
<p>I pretty much know who's visiting this site from Canada and from the U.K. and even Australia. But what I'm not sure about is who's visiting from the US, Japan and Indonesia (as well as the unknown 4.1%). Chances are they just happened across this site by accident and won't be coming back, but if there is someone who's a regular visitor who's name isn't Lindsay, Christine, Kenton,Matt or Mark (well, you guys are welcome to send me an email as well!) please drop me an email.</p>
<p>Don't read the next section if you don't want to hear about Austin Powers.</p>
<p>We saw 'Austin Powers in Goldmember' yesterday. While it was quite funny at points and made us laugh it's also starting to really feel like we've done this all before. But they did manage to throw enough surprises and new material in to make it entertaining. What was kind of disturbing was the fact that they've rated the movie PG-13 for crude humour, sexual innuendo and language it should've been rated higher for the violence. If you've seen the movie then you'll know what I'm talking about. Mini-Me gets his butt handed to him on more than a few occasions in very violent ways. Sue and I couldn't believe parents would bring their kids to a movie like this - especially kids that were obviously 10 and under.</p>
<p>Such is our culture I guess.</p>
