---
title: "Basecamp Personal"
---
<p>I recently switched back to using <a href="https://basecamp.com">regular Basecamp</a> for <a href="https://lemonproductions.ca">Lemon Productions</a> projects. I tried many other services and tools but nothing else worked as well as Basecamp. 37signals did a redesign of Basecamp last year and it's really great - and fast. Unbelievably fast and smooth for being a web app.</p>
<p>Today 37signals announced <a href="https://basecamp.com/personal">Basecamp Personal</a> that looks like a great option for small groups  (5 people or less) to plan and organize events or projects.</p>
<p>You can <a href="https://basecamp.com/personal/signup/compare">see how it compares to regular Basecamp</a> but the best part is that it's a single $25 fee to set up a project. No monthly costs or recurring fees.</p>
<p>My only issue with the limitations of Basecamp Personal is the user limit. A one-off, short-term project won't necessarily be limited to 5 people. You might need a group (i.e. a volleyball team fundraising for a trip) of people involved who won't all need to have active accounts, but at least be able to check in on what's going on. I guess for those scenarios 37signals would tell you to set up a regular Basecamp account - starting at $20/month - and then just cancel when you're done.</p>
<p>At present they're only opening it up to current Basecamp customers but you don't have to be an owner of a Basecamp account, just a user on someone's project. So if you're interested in trying it out and don't have a 37signals ID, leave me a note in the comments and I can invite you to a project so you can check it out.</p>
