---
title: "Apple March 2015 Event Video Posted"
---
<p>Apple has <a href="https://www.apple.com/live/2015-mar-event/">posted the video from their event on Monday</a> in case you wanted to re-watch it. [footnote]You did watch it live right? Who doesn't have 90 minutes free on a Monday to watch tech news?[/footnote]</p>
<p>If you're curious about my thoughts, you can <a href="https://goodstuff.fm/specials/13">listen to Tim Smith and myself discuss it on yesterday's Goodstuff Specials episode</a>. The tl;dl [footnote]Too long, didn't listen[/footnote] version is this:</p>
<ul>
<li>Apple's growing presence in China is a big deal. AFAIK it's a pretty big country.</li>
<li>Cheaper Apple TV is good. Not as cheap in Canada due to another adjustment by Apple reflecting the US Dollar.</li>
<li>The new <a href="https://trailers.apple.com/trailers/independent/gameofthrones/">Game of Thrones trailer</a> is awesome.</li>
<li>HBO Now sounds great but only available in the U.S. for now.</li>
<li>Health Kit and Research Kit are incredible. Possibly the most important part of the presentation in my opinion.</li>
<li>The new MacBook looks interesting if you're not a power user or tired of your iPad Air and wanting to go back to a laptop.</li>
<li>Apple Watch just doesn't interest me. I have no doubt it's going to sell really well and I'm sure eventually I'll want one - but I don't have a real world use that I can justify $350+ for an Apple Watch.</li>
<li>Plus I hate the feeling of something on my wrist and was very happy to get rid of my watch when I started carrying a cell phone.</li>
</ul>
<p>Are you going to order an Apple Watch?</p>
